1.23.0 release notes and updates (#109)
canonical/anbox-cloud-docs: reference/release-notes/1.23.0.md

In the 1.24.0 release, the node controller will be fully replaced with LXD proxy device for both regular and appliance deployments.<!--AC--2487-->

## Known issues

* WiFi support is not available with any of the images. This issue will be fixed in the 1.23.1 release. <!--AC-2647-->
* No crash dump is generated for the `anbox session` or `container-manager` process when running an Anbox session on ARM64.
* Occasionally, the VHAL panel will not show up on AAOS streams. Reloading the stream page fixes the issue in most cases. In case it doesn't, restarting the instance will fix the issue.
* In a multi-cluster deployment that has more than one AMS, you cannot use a single web dashboard to control all the clusters in the deployment.
* When connecting to an Android instance using `anbox-connect <connection_url>`, you might occasionally encounter the following error:
    ```
    Failed to communicate with the signaler:  Failed to add ICE candidate: InvalidStateError: remote description is not set
    ```
    Retrying the command resolves the issue.

> * A service declared to be publicly available in the application manifest is not exposed publicly. If your deployment is behind a NAT, you can run the following command to overcome this issue:

Reviewer: This is a new issue specific to the Anbox Cloud Appliance. Let's limit this issue to the new Anbox Cloud Appliance.

---
orphan: true
---
# 1.23.0

The Anbox Cloud team is pleased to announce the release of Anbox Cloud 1.23.0.

Please see [component versions](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/reference/component-versions) for a list of updated components.

## New features & improvements

### Core stack improvements

* The Anbox Cloud Appliance is overhauled to deliver a much simpler and streamlined version. This new version of the appliance is made available using the [snap epoch feature](https://snapcraft.io/docs/snap-epochs). Existing installations of the appliance are not affected but the old snap with `epoch=0` is {ref}`deprecated <sec-appliance-deprecation>`. For all new installations of the appliance, use the `epoch=1` snap. See the [appliance installation tutorial](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/anbox-cloud/en/latest/tutorial/installing-appliance/) for instructions.

* Anbox Cloud now offers a way to connect to remote Android instances securely using the Android Debug Bridge (ADB). You can set up an ADB connection using the dashboard or the CLI. See {ref}`howto-access-instance` for more information.

### Streaming improvements

> < List enhancements to streaming stack here. >

Author: Any streaming specific improvements?

Reviewer 2: I think there has been some work on upscaling.
@adglkh

Reviewer 3: I don't think there is anything for this release to mention here.

Reviewer 3: Also shoudn't we start to merge core and streaming into one part as the separation between becomes softer?

Author: Yes, I have been feeling that for quite some releases now. I have tried something new, if it works for this release, I will update the release template.

---
orphan: true
---
# 1.23.0

The Anbox Cloud team is pleased to announce the release of Anbox Cloud 1.23.0.

Please see [component versions](https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/reference/component-versions) for a list of updated components.

## New features & improvements

> ### Core stack improvements

Reviewer 3: @ajanon I think we should mention the switch to the Android 14 vendor image even if it is just to make people aware than that it serves much more information/value. From what I recall you have a todo to put the vendor image setup into the documentation too which then would nicely tie up.

Reviewer 2: Yes, that makes sense.

Author: I have added a line. @ajanon let me know if there is anything else to be added or any links to reference

* The Anbox Cloud Appliance is overhauled to deliver a much simpler and streamlined version. This new version of the appliance is made available using the [snap epoch feature](https://snapcraft.io/docs/snap-epochs). Existing installations of the appliance are not affected but the old snap with `epoch=0` is {ref}`deprecated <sec-appliance-deprecation>`. For all new installations of the appliance, use the `epoch=1` snap. See the [appliance installation tutorial](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/anbox-cloud/en/latest/tutorial/installing-appliance/) for instructions.
    * The `anbox-cloud-appliance` status command now displays the initialisation status of the appliance and its version. <!--AC-2513-->

* Anbox Cloud now offers a way to connect to remote Android instances securely using the Android Debug Bridge (ADB). You can set up an ADB connection using the dashboard or the CLI. See {ref}`howto-access-instance` for more information.

> * Android Automotive OS based images are full supported starting from this release and no longer considered an experimental feature.<!--AC-2660-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Android Automotive OS based images are fully supported starting from this release and no longer considered an experimental feature.<!--AC-2660-->
```
I think? Wdyt?

Author: That was a typo, thanks for catching that.

### Streaming improvements

< List enhancements to streaming stack here. >

### Dashboard improvements

The Anbox Cloud dashboard has the following improvements:

* The *Instances* and the *Sessions* pages and their functionalities are merged to provide an enhanced user experience while streaming.

> * The initial VHAL values upon joining a stream are now captured as a default. You can revert to these values using the *Reset* button, when needed.

Reviewer 3: I think we need to mention the seamless ADB part here. @canonical/anbox-ui anything else you want to highlight here?

Author: Have added it here as well.

### Other

* All Anbox Cloud charms now install Snaps directly from the Snap Store instead of using deb packages. Existing installations automatically switch to snap refresh from the store on upgrade.<!--AC-2523-->
* Android security updates for August 2024 (see [Android Security Bulletin - August 2024](https://source.android.com/docs/security/bulletin/2024-08-01) for more information).
* The Android WebView has been updated to [127.0.6533.84](https://chromereleases.googleblog.com/2024/07/chrome-for-android-update_30.html).
* Our documentation is now hosted at [documentation.ubuntu.com](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/anbox-cloud/en/latest). Previous documentation links from the [earlier website](https://anbox-cloud.io) will be redirected to new targets.

    The documentation source is hosted at the public [Anbox Cloud documentation repository on GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/anbox-cloud-docs). We welcome all contributions to the Anbox Cloud documentation using this repository. See [Contribute to Anbox Cloud documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/anbox-cloud/en/latest/contribute/landing/) for more information.

## Removed functionality

> < List features that were part of Anbox Cloud so far or that were on the deprecation path for a while and have been removed for the current release >

Reviewer 3: EmuGL needs to be listed here.

## Deprecations

* Use of a node controller to manage port forwarding from an instance is deprecated, starting with this release. In 1.23.0, the node controller will still be used for the full Anbox Cloud deployment. For the appliance, the Anbox Management Service (AMS) now uses a LXD proxy device to manage the port forwarding from an instance to expose a service externally or internally.

  In the 1.24.0 release, the node controller will be fully replaced with LXD proxy device for both regular and appliance deployments.<!--AC--2487-->

## Known issues

> * WiFi support is not available with Android 14 vendor images. This issue will be fixed in the 1.23.1 release. <!--AC-2647-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* WiFi support is not available with any of the images. This issue will be fixed in the 1.23.1 release. <!--AC-2647-->
```

- [LP 2072955](https://bugs.launchpad.net/anbox-cloud/+bug/2072955) Unable to add an image on Anbox Cloud Appliance.
- [LP 2067252](https://bugs.launchpad.net/anbox-cloud/+bug/2067252) Incorrect  `Error: api extension "zip_archive_support" not supported` error while creating an application.
- [LP 2069021](https://bugs.launchpad.net/anbox-cloud/+bug/2069021) Updating the AMS SDK to 1.21.0 prevents building the AMS client.
- [LP 2070252](https://bugs.launchpad.net/anbox-cloud/+bug/2070252) When running the Marvel Battle application, the following logs flooded the Anbox logcat:
    ```
    06-13 12:12:16.403 3221 3221 D SensorMonitor: Temperature Sensor value changed
    06-13 12:12:16.408 3221 3221 D SensorMonitor: Temperature Sensor value changed
    06-13 12:12:16.413 3221 3221 D SensorMonitor: Temperature Sensor value  changed
    ```
- [LP 2072367](https://bugs.launchpad.net/anbox-cloud/+bug/2072367) When initialising the Anbox Cloud Appliance, if you provide an empty public address, invalid STUN/TURN server details are generated.

> - [LP 2075494](https://bugs.launchpad.net/anbox-cloud/+bug/2075494) The streaming screen does not rotate when using client side upscaling.

Author: This is still in triaged state in LP, is this included in 1.23.0? @morphis @jat-canonical

Reviewer: No, it's not. The priority for this bug is pretty low also Samsung now has a way to work around this anyway.

The `anbox-cloud-appliance` status command now displays the initialisation status of the appliance and its version. <!--AC-2513-->

### Seamless ADB connections

Anbox Cloud now offers a way to connect to remote Android instances securely using the Android Debug Bridge (ADB). You can set up an ADB connection using the dashboard or the CLI. See {ref}`howto-access-instance` for more information.

### Full support for AAOS

Android Automotive OS based images are fully supported starting from this release and no longer considered an experimental feature.<!--AC-2660-->

### Anbox Cloud dashboard

The Anbox Cloud dashboard has the following improvements:

> * The *Instances* and the *Sessions* pages and their functionalities are merged to provide an enhanced user experience while streaming.

Reviewer 4: Hmmm, I'm not fully convinced by the "while streaming" here. The enhanced user experience is not just for "while streaming", but rather for the whole app - starting from the creation flow, and then to the list page (instances table), and also to detail pages (instance detail page and session stream page).

Author: Generalised it a bit as "while creating and streaming an application"

> * The initial VHAL values upon joining a stream are now captured as a default. You can revert to these values using the *Reset* button, when needed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The initial VHAL values upon joining a stream are now captured as a default. You can revert to these values using the *Reset* button while you are on the stream page.
```

> * You can set up and authorise ADB connections for an instance from the dashboard.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* You can easily authorise ADB connections for any streaming-enabled instance from the dashboard.
```
There is no set up for this :)

### Anbox Cloud charms

All Anbox Cloud charms now install Snaps directly from the Snap Store instead of using deb packages. Existing installations automatically switch to snap refresh from the store on upgrade.<!--AC-2523-->

> ### Vendor image

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Android vendor image
```

> The Anbox vendor images are now based on Android 14. Building on the latest version of Android helps us provide the latest updates and security fixes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Android vendor images used in Anbox are now based on Android 14. Building on the latest version of Android helps us provide the latest updates and security fixes.
```

The Anbox vendor images are now based on Android 14. Building on the latest version of Android helps us provide the latest updates and security fixes.

### Security updates

Android security updates for August 2024 (see [Android Security Bulletin - August 2024](https://source.android.com/docs/security/bulletin/2024-08-01) for more information).

### WebView updates

> The Android WebView has been updated to [127.0.6533.84](https://chromereleases.googleblog.com/2024/07/chrome-for-android-update_30.html).

Reviewer: The version of Android webview shipped into 1.23 lxd image is `126.0.6478.72`

Author: Have asked @morphis to confirm. According to https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/releases?platform=Android, 127.0.6533.84 is the latest completed build.

Reviewer: +1, thanks for the correction

The documentation source is hosted at the public [Anbox Cloud documentation repository on GitHub](https://github.com/canonical/anbox-cloud-docs). We welcome all contributions to the Anbox Cloud documentation using this repository. See [Contribute to Anbox Cloud documentation](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/anbox-cloud/en/latest/contribute/landing/) for more information.

## Removed functionality

Support for EmuGL is removed with this release.

## Deprecations

Use of a node controller to manage port forwarding from an instance is deprecated, starting with this release. In 1.23.0, the node controller will still be used for the full Anbox Cloud deployment. For the appliance, the Anbox Management Service (AMS) now uses a LXD proxy device to manage the port forwarding from an instance to expose a service externally or internally.

In the 1.24.0 release, the node controller will be fully replaced with LXD proxy device for both regular and appliance deployments.<!--AC--2487-->

## Known issues

> * WiFi support is not available with any of the images. This issue will be fixed in the 1.23.1 release. <!--AC-2647-->

Reviewer: * There would be no crash dump generated to anbox session or container-manager process when running anbox session on arm64

Reviewer: @ajanon @lorumic do we want to mention the Vhal panel issue in this section too as a known issue?

Reviewer 2: See suggestion below for the VHAL panel issue.

* No crash dump is generated for the `anbox session` or `container-manager` process when running an Anbox session on ARM64.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In some rare cases, the VHAL panel will not show up on AAOS streams. Reloading the stream page fixes the issue in most cases. In case it doesn't, restarting the instance will fix the issue.

```
@keirthana Feel free to ask for me for changes, or do changes yourself if you feel like this should be written differently.

Author: This is perfect, thanks!

The `anbox-cloud-appliance` status command now displays the initialisation status of the appliance and its version. <!--AC-2513-->

### Seamless ADB connections

Anbox Cloud now offers a way to connect to remote Android instances securely using the Android Debug Bridge (ADB). You can set up an ADB connection using the dashboard or the CLI. See {ref}`howto-access-instance` for more information.

### Full support for AAOS

Android Automotive OS based images are fully supported starting from this release and no longer considered an experimental feature.<!--AC-2660-->

### Anbox Cloud dashboard

The Anbox Cloud dashboard has the following improvements:

  * The *Instances* and the *Sessions* pages and their functionalities are merged to provide an enhanced user experience while streaming.

  * The initial VHAL values upon joining a stream are now captured as a default. You can revert to these values using the *Reset* button, when needed.

>   * You can set up and authorise ADB connections for an instance from the dashboard.

Reviewer 5: @morphis should there an item here for multi-cluster support here or no ?

Author: As per SU discussion, adding the known issue
